---
layout: post
title: "My Yoga and Certification Experience"
date:   2025-02-22
categories: experience
---

{% newthought 'What drew me to Yoga?' %}

What drew me to yoga was the need for an outlet during the pandemic.

My gym had closed, and I was stuck working a desk job from home. I had a personal calisthenics practice, but my body was riddled with aches and pains—my back, shoulders, and core were all suffering. (I had already been in physical therapy for a tight psoas and pelvic floor dysfunction before the pandemic.)

On top of that, I was stressed and alone. My mom had just finished chemo after battling breast cancer, and I broke up with my girlfriend the day the pandemic lockdown was announced. I was lost, searching for something...<!--more--> and I found yoga.

{% newthought 'What is it like going through a 200-hour yoga certification?' %}

The 200-hour yoga certification has been an **incredible experience**. {% marginnote '' 'Shout out to Dr. Milissa Bradley and my classmates!' %} I'm in a unique program at Diablo Valley Community College, where I've studied anatomy, philosophy, teaching methods, and techniques. The coursework is both physically and mentally demanding but also very rewarding.

{% newthought 'How has it changed my understanding of yoga?' %}

It has completely changed my understanding of yoga—not just as a physical practice but as a discipline that requires immense dedication from teachers and practitioners. I've gained a new appreciation for the effort and passion that yoga teachers bring to their students and the work that goes on behind the scenes.

{% newthought 'Is there a particular teacher or moment during my training that really stood out to me?' %}

Both. The entire course has been taught by Dr. Milissa Bradley. If you ever have the opportunity to take her classes, you should—even if you have no interest in becoming a yoga teacher. You will grow in so many unexpected ways that will benefit your life.

Something that continually stands out to me is how supportive, vulnerable, and hardworking my classmates are. **Seriously, they. are. awesome.**

{% newthought 'My favorite yoga pose, and why' %}

I've been working on a yoga calendar for my capstone project that explores the beliefs, traditions, and myths behind different poses. These are my interpretations, and the process has been both fun and insightful.

**Adho Mukha Svanasana** (Downward Dog) is probably my favorite—I love dogs and the myths and cultural beliefs the pose might draw from are also fascinating. {% sidenote 'downward-dog' 'My interpretation of Adho Mukha Svanasana was inspired by the myth of Bhairava. In the story, Bhairava decapitates the fifth head of Brahma and must atone. During his journey, he relies on his dog for guidance and support on the path to liberation. In Hindu tradition, dogs are seen as guardians of Dharma, leading souls through karma.' %}





